**Lab 1 – Your First App**
CS235AM, Intermediate Mobile Application Development: Android

------

**Objectives**
The purpose of this lab is to give you practice:

- Creating UI widgets
- Handling UI events

**Exercises**

Do the textbook exercises shown below:
*Note: Use the Empty Activity template, and set the API level to 19.*

- 2-1, Create a Hello World app and modify its UI layout according to the instructions. You will just be changing what's there, not adding any new widgets.

- 2-2, Create the Invoice Total app UI. You will:

- - Add some TextView widgets

  - Add a EditText widget

  - Arrange the widgets and set some attributes.

    

- 3-1, Finish the Invoice Total App. You will:

- - Add an event handler for the EditText widget

  - Code to save the state of the app when it has been paused or stopped and potentially destroyed

  - Add a launcher icon.

     


**Submission to Moodle**

<u>Beta Version</u>
Post the following to the Beta + Code Review Forum:

1. Part 1: A document containing screen-shots of the the app running for each exercise with each screen-shot labeled. Please use docx, pdf, html, or md format (not rtf).
2. Part 2: A zip file containing your app’s Android Studio solution folder. (Make your solution smaller only submitting the source code--that means deleting an code generated by the compiler.
   Or, a link to a repository containing your web site solution source code. You can put the link on the same document with your screen shots from part 1.

 

<u>Production Version</u>

1. Items 1 and 2 above, but revised as needed.

2. A code review of your work (the one done by your lab partner) with the second column (“Release”) completed by you.

   

------

Written by Brian Bird, Lane Community College, Summer 2014. Revised by Brian Bird Fall 2019